## 2019-10-09
---
### Several errors, all at once, freaking me out
Tag: conda, visual studio, gensim, 

1. Anaconda
- Conda autoupdates when you try to install some package
- This wouldn't be a problem if they didn't botch one of the versions which makes a mess in the base env
- As a consequence my base env could not find numpy anymore
- Proposed fixes
	- updating conda seems to fail
	- downgrading conda seems to work for someone, not for me. 
	- another route is to fix the whole distribution with conda executables. Not tested. 	
- My solution: create a new environment and install what you need there. 

2. Visual Studio
Visual Studio told me that my terminal was rendering slowly. It changed rendering to DOM, it became even slower. To change back hit ctrl+, and type renderer type. I switched back to Canvas

Due to the above bug now I need Visual Studio to load a specific env in my project. 

3. Install the GNU Scientific Library (gsl) on Linux 
One of the package I'm relying needs gls to work, so I needed to install it.

I'm following mainly [1] with a lazy twist and a necessary fix at the end.

First head to [2] and find the latest GSL version (i.e: gsl-x.y where x is the major version and y is the minor revision. For instance gsl-1.6 or gsl-2.7). Then do the following in yourh home directory:
```bash
my_gsl=gsl-x.y
wget ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/gsl/"$my_gsl".tar.gz
tar -zxvf "$my_gsl".tar.gz
```
This will download unzip the latest GSL distribution. Now create a folder for your personal GSL folder and use it to configure the GSL installation:
```bash
mkdir "$HOME"/gsl
cd $my_gsl
./configure --prefix="$HOME"/gsl
```
Alternatively one can use explicitly `/home/username` instead of the global variable `$HOME`. The configuration will take some time after which, if no error is present, one can first compile the library and then test it:
```bash
# this will take some minutes
make 
# this too will take some times
make check
```
If again no error shows we can finish by installing GSL.
```
make install
```
Now we have the GSL distribution installed and we can delete the zipped and unzipped tar folders we downloaded at start. 

Time to put the library to test. In a file copy the following:
```c
#include <stdio.h>
#include <gsl/gsl_sf_bessel.h>

int
main (void)
{
    double x = 15.0;
    double y = gsl_sf_bessel_J0 (x);
    printf ("J0(%g) = %.18e/n", x, y);
    return 0;
}
```
Now execute this:
```bash
gcc -Wall -I/"$HOME"/gsl/include -c example.c
gcc -L/"$HOME"/gsl/lib example.o -lgsl -lgslcblas -lm
./a.out
```
If everything went right you should see a nice string of numbers. If on the contrary you, as me, like your errors like I like my coffee (often and bitter) then you'll probably get the following cheerful line:
```bash
./a.out: error while loading shared libraries: libgsl.so.23: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
```
This means that the compiler cannot find the GLS library, the fix is the following [3][4]:
```bash
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$HOME/gsl/lib
```
Now you should be good to go. 


Refs:
- [[1]](https://coral.ise.lehigh.edu/jild13/2016/07/11/hello/) How to install GSL on Linux
- [[2]](http://ftpmirror.gnu.org/gsl/) GSL ftp server
- [[3]](https://stackoverflow.com/a/21173918/6332373) SO thread #1
- [[4]](https://stackoverflow.com/a/46108876/6332373) SO thread #2
Useful characters: `,~

---
