## 2019-07-19
---

### I heard rumors of the Tab vs. Spaces war
Tag: *bash, python, markdown, opinions*

If like me you've never found the time to follow the Tab vs Space debate you probably have started using the same coding convention for every project without caring about the rest of the world and now the issue is starting to bite your ass. In my case I noticed that the bash script in yesterday note behaves differently than the python script.

Since again I don't have time to care about the issue what I understood about it is that tab and spaces are formatted differently and tabs can have problem on some computer and render differently. 

From my point of view is just a matter of comfort: one stroke vs 4 strokes. But I probably am wrong and there must be some configuration setting that could switch tabs to 4 spaces without batting an eye. 

However: here's [1] a more serious point of view about *usability*. In the comment several suggestions are made and I discovered Editorconfig [2] which is a file to define the formatting of your code so that IDE don't get crazy. Moreover it can inform also how Github render your code [3].

This is to say that I still havent found the solution to my problem but it's not really important. 

P.S. about conventions and PITAs: if nobody told you about PEPs or Tab vs Spaces you may find yourself coding in a totally different way with respect to the rest of the community [4]

Refs:
1. [Nobody talks about the real reason to use Tabs over Spaces](https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/comments/c8drjo/nobody_talks_about_the_real_reason_to_use_tabs/)
2. [Editorconfig](https://editorconfig.org/)
3. [Github + .editorconfig = <3](https://github.com/isaacs/github/issues/170#issuecomment-150489692)
4. [Scroll down for Python ](https://ukupat.github.io/tabs-or-spaces/), [More of the same (probably ALL of the same)](https://github.com/src-d/tab-vs-spaces)
---

### Tab vs Space: the nuclear option
Tag: *bash*

My first thought actually was to replace every tab in my notes with four spaces with a bash command. I didn't do it, but here's what I'll try the next time (*warning: not tested*)

*Below is a cut and paste of this [SO answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/43523362/6332373) that I liked. *


Collecting the best comments from [Gene's answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/11094620/1147688), the best solution by far, is by using `sponge` from [moreutils](https://joeyh.name/code/moreutils/). 

```bash
sudo apt-get install moreutils
# The complete one-liner:
find ./ -iname '*.java' -type f -exec bash -c 'expand -t 4 "$0" | sponge "$0"' {} \;
```

**Explanation:** 

- `./` is recursively searching from current directory
- `-iname` is a case insensitive match (for both `*.java` and `*.JAVA` likes)
- `type -f` finds only regular files (no directories, binaries or symlinks)
- `-exec bash -c` execute following commands in a subshell for each file name, `{}`
- `expand -t 4` expands all TABs to 4 spaces
- `sponge` soak up standard input (from `expand`) and write to a file (the same one)*. 

**NOTE**: * A simple file redirection (`> "$0"`) won't work here because [it would overwrite the file too soon](https://stackoverflow.com/a/29244408/1088580) .

**Advantage**: All original file permissions are retained and no intermediate `tmp` files are used.


TODO:
- Tool to copy automatically (i.e. with a request) a particular SO asnwer to your notes.
- Tool to collect your SO queries once they start to become too many. 

---

### Markdown footnotes
Tag: *markdown*

If you can't say anything nice. <sup>[1](#fnote1)</sup>

<a name="fnote1">1</a>: Say it in a footnote.

```markdown
If you can't say anything nice. <sup>[1](#fnote1)</sup>
_
<a name="fnote1">1</a>: Say it in a footnote.
```

Refs:
- [SO answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/29384216/6332373)

---
### Notes on postit.sh
Tag: *TODO*, *bash*

Initial configuration:
- use blueprint script as default to create personalized script
	1. select root folder
		- if a folder name is not provided create a "my_daily_notes" folder
		- root folder will be set as environment variable inside personalized script
	2. select markdown editor (CLI suggested), this will be invoked by personalized script
	3. git configuration

Useful arguments:
- preview MD files (open)
- edit today file
- edit file of "-1", "-2", "-3" days ago
- add-commit-push

Useful features:
- start a localhost browser to browser all the content aggregated by month/tag

---
### Setuptools trivia
Tag: *python*, *C*, *setuptools*

#### `develop` argument
This will probably bite you when you start working for the first time with someone else's package which is not in a well defined state and you find little bugs you want to fix by yourself. You `git clone` it, you see the source in the folder as each one of your packages and then you install it. 

Since you probably installed the package without the `develop` argument you soon will find yourself modifying the source without nothing happening. This is particularly frustrating the first times because there's no specific warning or error thrown out (as it should be) and instead you should check the stacktrace and see which file are you actually using (very probably not the one you're modifying).

To use a package which you're also modifying add the `develop` argument to the installation.

>To do this, use the setup.py develop command. It works very similarly to setup.py install or the EasyInstall tool, except that it doesn’t actually install anything. Instead, it creates a special .egg-link file in the deployment directory, that links to your project’s source code. And, if your deployment directory is Python’s site-packages directory, it will also update the easy-install.pth file to include your project’s source code, thereby making it available on sys.path for all programs using that Python installation.

Also probably worth to add: after this you need to import from the root folder of the package and you cannot import it from everywhere. 

Refs: [SO thread](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19048732/python-setup-py-develop-vs-install)


#### Add a C script to your package (works in Python 2.7 on WLS)
Run the following:
```bash
git clone git://gist.github.com/3247796.git c_ext
```
Now `c_ext` has the following structure:
```bash
├── _chi2.c
├── chi2.c
├── chi2.h
└── setup.py
```
Where `setup.py` reads like this:
```python
from distutils.core import setup, Extension
import numpy.distutils.misc_util

c_ext = Extension("_chi2", ["_chi2.c", "chi2.c"])

setup(
    ext_modules=[c_ext],
    include_dirs=numpy.distutils.misc_util.get_numpy_include_dirs(),
)
```
The short story: this is the structure of a `setup.py` file where we want to use an external C function. For the long story read here: [1].

Let's add a small test script:
```python
# test.py
import _chi2
result = _chi2.chi2(
    2.0, 1.0,
    [-1.0, 4.2, 30.6],
    [-1.5, 8.0, 63.0],
    [1.0, 1.5, 0.6]
)
print("Result: {} (expected: 2.89888)".format(result))
```

And now let's build the package and check if we can use the function:

```bash
python setup.py build_ext --inplace
python test.py
```

We should get 2.89888. Now the folder should have this structure:
```bash
.
├── build
│   └── temp.linux-x86_64-2.7
│       ├── _chi2.o
│       ├── chi2.o
│       ├── _chi2.o.d
│       └── chi2.o.d
├── _chi2.c
├── chi2.c
├── chi2.h
├── _chi2.so
├── setup.py
└── test.py
```

Next: how to make this work on Windows?

Refs:
- [[1]](https://dfm.io/posts/python-c-extensions/)  Python modules in C
- [[2]](https://gist.github.com/dfm/3247796) Gist content

---

### Changes in the previous script in order to make it work in Windows
Tag: *python*, *C*

Moving from WSL to Windows was a PITA. 

The first error I've encountered was the famous “`unable to find vcvarsall.bat`" error. The issue is caused by the lack of a proper C compiler in Windows. 

Or as better explained here [1]: 
> As a Windows user, you’re probably used to downloading programs that are ready to run. This is largely due to the very impressive compatibility that Windows provides – you can take a program that was compiled twenty years ago and run it on versions of Windows that nobody had imagined at that time. However, Python comes from a very different world where every single machine can be different and incompatible. This makes it impossible to precompile programs and only distribute the build outputs, because many users will not be able to use it. So the culture is one where only source code is distributed, and every machine is set up with a compiler and the tools necessary to build extension modules on install. Because Windows has a different culture, most people do not have (or need) a compiler.

While that resource was useful to understand better that kind of error the solution it proposed, to install the Microsoft Visual C++ Compiler for Python 2.7[2], didn't work since it was already installed on machine (hence it should have been automatically detected by the setup) 

More helpful has been [this](https://stackoverflow.com/a/26127562/6332373) answer on StackOverflow saying:

> The project you are installing must use `setuptools.setup()`, not `distutils` or the auto-detection won't work. [3]

So I modified the setup as follows:

```python
try:
    from setuptools import setup
    from setuptools import Extension
except ImportError as E:
    print("{}. Using distutils instead.".format(E))
    from distutils.core import setup
    from distutils.extension import Extension

import numpy.distutils.misc_util

c_ext = Extension("_chi2", ["_chi2.c", "chi2.c"])

setup(
    ext_modules=[c_ext],
    include_dirs=numpy.distutils.misc_util.get_numpy_include_dirs(),
)
```
... to be welcomed by a new set of errors! Yay: Python easy as a py!

Refs:
- [[1]](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/python/unable-to-find-vcvarsall-bat/)How to deal with the pain of “unable to find vcvarsall.bat”?
- [[2]](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=44266) Microsoft Visual C++ Compiler for Python 2.7
- [[3]](https://stackoverflow.com/a/26127562/6332373) StackOverflow 
- [[4]](https://github.com/cython/cython/wiki/CythonExtensionsOnWindows) Cython guide on compilation

---

### Error C2275 : illegal use of this type as an expression
Tag: *C*, *python*

As reported here [1]:
> When you name your source files *.c, MSVC assumes it's compiling C, which means C89. All block-local variables need to be declared at the beginning of the block.

Solution: declare variables after the first opening brace (this was also suggested in a comment on the original post [2]). I modified the file as indicated and now everything works fine on both WSL and Windows. :muscle: :muscle: :muscle:

I forked the original gist to make the new changes also to include the new test file [3]. This should now work in Python 2.7 for both WSL and Windows (sorry: no testing for the rest).

```bash
git clone https://gist.github.com/02940845b1f83db231659854b200751e.git c_ext
cd c_ext
python setup.py build_ext --inplace
python test.py
```

Refs:
- [[1]](https://stackoverflow.com/a/9903698/6332373) StackOverflow 
- [[2]](http://disq.us/p/r7o96i) Comment on the original post
- [[3]](https://gist.github.com/gibbbone/02940845b1f83db231659854b200751e) Forked gist

---

### Duh moment: github username
Tag: *duh moments*, *github*

I've been using Github name and username in reverse order for over a year! I only noticed by looking at gist forks. I've now updated it. (Obviously the username I wanted was taken, I just added a letter to it). 

There's also a nasty list of things that could go wrong in the operation, but for the moment I should be safe thanks to the fact that I was using a proper mail for commits.

One thing you have to do is to update some remote links for your repos [1]:

``` bash
# check the name of the remote (usually origin)
git remote
# update the remote
git remote set-url <remote name> https://github.com/<new username>/<repo name>.git/
# now push updates to new remote
git push
# this will prompt a new password prompt: fill it with the new username
username:
password:
```

Moreover for some repos this will not be necessary, but this message will show:

```bash 
remote: This repository moved. Please use the new location:
remote: <new remote url>
```



Refs:

- [[1]](https://help.github.com/en/articles/changing-a-remotes-url) Github documentation

---

### Nice to know: installing Snap.py  
Tag: *nice to know*, *duh moments*, *python*

To install the python version of the Stanford Snap software [1] you don't have to clone the git repo (as with common packages distributed over the internet) but you have to download it from the appropriate page [2] and then follow the instructions. The github repo is probably for development only (this is more clear in the principal project page).

Refs:
- [[1]](http://snap.stanford.edu/snap/index.html) Main page of the project
- [[2]](http://snap.stanford.edu/snappy/release/) Python version releases page

---

