## 2019-10-18
---
### Some thoughts on critics and canons
Tag: thoughts, 

- Canon > Harold Bloom > king of the hot takes > the most resilient
- Lists are way to establish a canon 
	- They make critics accountable for the future
	- They make evident that there are two ways of consuming (pop) products: by the day, over time. Moreover we have the long period (20 years or more) and medium period (last 20 years). 
- However there are many things that can make something historical (long time important) or famous (short time important). 
- What if instead its not objective value but historical persevarance to make something stick. 
- Because sometimes is the most stubborn critic that seems to have won, because is the only one left alive (or on the map) which still says the same thing over time. survival of the fittest.
- This is something related to conspiracies/fake news/revisionism too: niche communities which perpetuates wrong reasonings only because they survive over time (and internet makes everything permanent especially what's wrong or useless) and they are extremely stubborn.
- What happen's is that a lie told constantly over time does not become a truth, but more people starts to believe it and when people believe stuff the lie becomes truth by its consequences (paradoxically). It's not the cause that it's true but its consequences become so. 
- That's way 
	- argument must be made to establish what's good
	- only history tells the truth, but framing of time is important
- also: 
	- in an evolutionary perspective bad songs are instrumental for good ones?


---
