## 2019-10-03
---
### Random notes
Tag: notes

#### Prompt_toolkit observations
- The default tutorial lead to develop a prompt application but you soon discover yourself needing many additional features. So you discover the Application class and that the PromptSession class used in the tutorial is just a Children of that class.
- There is some guidance missing: 
	- If I want to do this what should I do?
	- Is this the right way to do this?
	- Example in the documentation are all for basic/default/specific stuff. If you want to customize you miss always a good reference.
- You mostly resort to browse 
	- issues: version 2.0 and 3.0 issues are mixed 
	- other people projects: you want a simple feature you get a full fledged customized application
	- examples: useful but cumbersone to move from online documentatio to terminal and back
- Some of the edge cases I needed to use:
	- Word completer from ad hoc list (easy)
	- Prompt with ad hoc fields (easy)
	- Radiolist prompt (hard) --> needs to customize class
	- Change a default keybindings (easy) --> remove it and add it
	- Going back to previous prompt with tabs --> need Application struture
	- Create an immutable selection menu and displaying output from it (hard)
	- Integrate prompt_toolkit with the terminal (hard) --> must take care 
TODO
	- asciimatics of every example
	- clear terminal to show history menu
	- color prompt compatibility

#### My TODO routine on terminal
- Instad of copying the TODO of the previous day update it and keep track of the diffs
- TODO / SNOOZED-BACKLOG / TIMELINE/ NOTES
- Work / Rest / Desires

---
### Ohmnet notes
Tag: notes, work_related

How it works on my machine:
- open terminal in Visual Studio Code
- use specific setup.py file which takes into account that I'm using a Visual C++ compiler for Python2.7
	- it uses `setuptools.setup()` instead of `distutils`
- run the following in the terminal

```bash
activate env2.7bis
python main.py --input "data/brain.list" --outdir "tmp" --hierarchy "data/brain.hierarchy"
python main.py --input "data/first.list" --outdir "tmp/first" --hierarchy "data/first_mr_a0.hierarchy" --nodetype "str" --directed --weighted
```

Other version tried:
- This version on WLS: GCC complains. 
	- check out why, since it does not complain when used for other script
		- it was a path error (duh)
		- now it works both under Windows and under WSL

- Other guy version on WLS: 
	- WSL: needs cython installed
	- use distutils hence does not work.

In conclusion: all this mess because I'm working under a Python2.7 environment (FML).

---
