## 2019-07-22
---
### Another case of Git disease
Tag: *git*, *workflow*

Recently I've been bitten by Git. Again. I've worked for a long time on some code and then found out that my git workflow was flawed. Cue rush to understand the why, the how, the what to do to fix all this. Eventually I've solved my problem. 

But now I have *other* projects which sit in other folders and need to be mantained with the old method. And for the moment this other method seems appropriate, until. Until the day I will find out that I've done everything wrong. Again.

I think that this is a recurrent issue with Git. If you look online you'll find out many post starting with: why Git is so hard? And probably my experience will resonate with you too. 

Unlike Python Git has not a series of guidelines in order to do your thing *right*. Moreover there are many way to do the same thing (or that's what you think you are doing). Finally there are different workflows which can be adapted with Git but nobody tells you the differences and you start with something which seems uncomfortable, try to adapt it to your use case, fail and restart again until you *somewhat* now how to use git (or where to look for help).

The thing is that nobody forces you to use a particular workflow but at the same time nobody tells you when it will go wrong, how to fix it and which are the differences. Total freedom is not always the best option.

Here's my path, which I think is common to many others:
- You need a tool to backup your code and remember changes you've made in the past. You work alone.
- You discover that there is a tool for the job and it is called git.
- You learn git and you discover that it can make many more than what you needed. Hence it has a level of complexity that you would not have expected starting out. 
- You try to work with git but you fail misearbly at every steps. 
- After many failings you endogenize that level of complexity and start working with git. But your use case is very basic hence you start using only some features of git. 
- Time passes. You forget the extended use cases and the whole complexity. 
- You try to apply your workflow to another use case, for instance collaborating with others. You fail miserably. Again. 
- Now what you do? Especially if the new workflow is not so common in your routine. How to manage both at the same time?
- From here there are only heuristics, because git, as you know, gives you all the power and all the responbility, no guidelines. Good luck my friend.  

---

### Merge same file from different folder interactively
Tag: *bash*, *markdown*, *sdiff*

```bash
file_list=$(find ./ -wholename "./*-06-*/things.md" -type f)
for f in $file_list; do
    sdiff -o merged.md $f tempfile.md
    mv merged.md tempfile.md
done
```

---


