## 2020-01-13

---
### Postit.sh v1.2: things learned in the process

Tag: bash, git, postit

I've decided to update postit with some new features. The most relevant are the personal switch to annotate private notes and the setup process. It is still very work-in-progress but I'm currently happy with the results. 

To briefly describe what I wanted: 

- the private mode use a separate folder and git repository for posting, allowing the same options of the vanilla command with just a -p switch. I wanted it since I started to use postit as a personal diary.
- the setup allow other users to use postit. It's an effort to build something also for others, or at least understand what problems they could incur with.

The private mode works great for my use case at the moment, the setup script instead is kinda junky and I need to change some stuff. Overall I was able to add everything, do not destroy my workflow and setup solid foundations for these new features. 

In the next paragraphs I want to annotate everything I used (and also discarded) in the process as reminders. Here we go:



**Use config files and where to put them**

For the setup script I needed to save some parameters which have to be accessed globally. The default folder to use is the `~/.config/<scriptname>/` one. 

I've found a good explanation [here](https://debian-handbook.info/browse/stable/sect.filesystem-hierarchy.html) , where also the Filesystem Hierarchy is explained:

> These configuration files stored directly in a user's home directory, often collectively referred to as *dotfiles*, have long proliferated to the point that these directories can be quite cluttered with them. 
>
> Fortunately, an effort led collectively under the FreeDesktop.org umbrella has resulted in the “XDG Base Directory Specification”, a convention that aims at cleaning up these files and directory. 
>
> This specification states that 
>
> - **configuration files should be stored under `~/.config`,** 
> - cache files under `~/.cache`, 
> - and application data files under `~/.local` (or subdirectories thereof). 
>
> This convention is slowly gaining traction, and several applications (especially graphical ones) have started following it



**Have separate `.gitignore` files for separate branches** ([reference gist](https://gist.github.com/wizioo/c89847c7894ede628071))

At first I thought it would be a good idea to put the personal folder as a branch of the notes repository with separate and mutually excluding `.gitignore` files. It seemed an elegant solution with a proper git workflow, until I noticed that by doing this the personal folder was literally disappearing when its branch was not checked out. That wasn't expected, or desired, so I opted for another way. 

The failing solution worked like this: it switched the main `.gitignore` with a branch specific one (`.gitignore.branch`) at branch check out, using a post checkout hook. Here are the steps (from the linked gist)

1. Create new `.gitignore` files for each branch and name it like this : `.gitignore.branch_name`
2. In your git repo, go to `.git/hooks/`
3. Edit or create `post-checkout` file and copy the content found in this gist.
4. Don't forget to make it executable with `chmod 755 post-checkout`
5. Just go to the branch you want and type `git status`: TADAAA !

Things to know: `post-checkout` must not have an extension, otherwise it will not be executed.



**Switch to a git branch or create it if it does not exist** [(reference SO thread)](https://stackoverflow.com/a/35683029/6332373)

```
git checkout foo 2>/dev/null || git checkout -b foo
```

This was in the  first setup to create the personal folder. (I've moved instead to create just a separate repo). In the first part the error is catched without being shown. 

In the linked thread there are more detailed answers where a full blown `switch` command is defined. And finally there's also a proper git command from git version 2.23



**Clean up git tree** 

This will delete everything up to the given commit ([reference SO thread 1](https://stackoverflow.com/a/4114122/6332373))

```bash
git reset --hard commit_hash
```

Notice: this will revert the whole folder to the commit state, hence any not committed file will be deleted, together with committed changes from the given commit on.

This will delete the given branch if it is not checked out: ([reference SO thread 2](https://stackoverflow.com/a/47216130/6332373))

```bash
git branch -d develop
```

Use the `-D` option to delete also changes which have not been merged to the principal tree



**Parsing getopts** ([reference tutorial](https://sookocheff.com/post/bash/parsing-bash-script-arguments-with-shopts/))

My getopts section has become more complicated:

```bash
while getopts ':zrcpsd:D:' flag; do
    case "${flag}" in
        z) mode='modify_it' ;;
        r) mode='read_it' ;;
        c) mode='commit_it' ;;    
        p) personal='True' ;;
        s) setup='True' ;;
        d) day=$(($OPTARG)) ;;        
        D) t=$OPTARG
        	day='True' ;;
        :) day=2 ;;
        *) echo "Option: not recognized"
            exit 1 ;;
    esac
done
```

Now I know that options which accept user input  have to be followed by `:`. Their content is captured by the `$OPTARG ` variable, which can be converted to numeric using the math operator `$(($OPTARG))`.  Finally if `OPTARG` fails a default value can be defined with the `:` case .

**Get the first element of a list of files which matches a string**

```bash
ls "$target_folder" | xargs -n 1 basename -s .md | grep $target_string | awk 'NR==1' 
```
- `ls`: list all files in a folder
- `basename -s .md`  : get their name and remove their extension.  `xargs` is required since `basename ` does not accept a list of arguments.
- `grep` : find the element(s) matching
- `awk 'NR==1' ` : select the first element of the white-space separated list



**Get the nth element of a reversed list of files **

```bash
ls -r "$target_folder" | basename -s .md $(awk -v d=$day 'NR==d' )
```

- `ls-r`: list all files in a folder in reverse order
- `awk -v d=$day 'NR==d' ` :  select the n-th element of ls list with a parameter `day`. To use it a variable must be defined inside `awk` with the `-v` option
- `basename -s .md`  : for the given element  get its name and remove its extension.  `xargs` is not required.



**Useful one liners:**

- get user input

  ```bash
  read -p "Do you want to use this folder as target?(y/n)" arg1
  ```

- make a script executable

  ```bash
  sudo chmod +x ~/bin/postit.sh
  ```

- read a config file

  ```bash
  source path/to/file #also "." can be used
  ```

  

